README.md, before:

# MetaLists
These are lists of software, focusing on those that are Linux-compatible. Use them to find alternative solutions for things you do every day, or just to find neat new software. Generally speaking, these lists will also contain software that is not made to be used a certain way but still can be. For example, you'll find [Atom](https://atom.io/) in the web browsers list because it can be modified to act like a web browser, even though it's made to be a text editor.

It is both possible and likely that I've made some mistakes in the details of these lists, as I have been compiling them by hand. It's also likely that a lot of the data in these lists, such as software's current development status, is out of date. I can't keep track of all this information efficiently enough to constantly keep all the lists updated. If you notice a mistake, feel free to make a pull request or create an issue with details such as which list the correction is for, the name of the software, what needs to be corrected, and any relevant links.

Generally, I will only list software that is still available for download from official sources. The point of this is to reduce linking to potential malware or adware. If there is software listed for which you cannot find a download, it is probably only still available via the repos of a Linux distribution. I'm on Manjaro. Some of these lists are not for software downloads, but primarily for online services you use in your web browser, these lists will not include whether or not the services support Linux.

I have not tested every piece of software and every service listed here. If you find malware, adware, or any other form of malicious software or service listed here, please remove it and submit a pull request, create an issue, or otherwise get in touch with me so that I can remove it.

## Current Lists
| Name / Link                                                         | Alternatives to                     |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| [Audio Editors and Music Production Suites](lists/audio_editors.md) | Audacity and FruityLoops            |
| [Audio Metadata Editors](lists/audio_meta_editors.md)               | Mp3tag                              |
| [Cloud Storage Services](lists/clouds.md)                           | Google Drive and Dropbox            |
| [Dictionaries](lists/dictionaries.md)                               | Dictionary.com                      |
| [Digital Assistants](lists/digital_assistants.md)                   | Cortana, Siri, and Google Assistant |
| [Email Clients](lists/email_clients.md)                             | Thunderbird                         |
| [Game Distribution Platforms](lists/game_distribs.md)               | Steam, Epic, and GOG                |
| [Game Library Managers](lists/game_libraries.md)                    | Steam                               |
| [Music Library Managers](lists/music_libraries.md)                  | MediaMonkey                         |
| [Music Players](lists/music_players.md)                             | Groove                              |
| [Office Suites](lists/office_suites.md)                             | Microsoft Office and LibreOffice    |
| [Search Engines](lists/search_engines.md)                           | Google                              |
| [Social Media](lists/social_media.md)                               | Facebook and Twitter                |
| [Software Lists](lists/software_lists.md)                           | AlternativeTo                       |
| [Sound Generators](lists/sound_gens.md)                             | myNoise                             |
| [Text Editors](lists/text_editors.md)                               | Notepad                             |
| [Video Editors](lists/video_editors.md)                             | Adobe Premiere                      |
| [Video Sharing Platforms](lists/video_sharing.md)                   | Youtube                             |
| [VoIPs](lists/voips.md)                                             | Skype and Discord                   |
| [Web Browsers](lists/web_browsers.md)                               | Google Chrome and Firefox           |

## Planned Lists
| Name / Link               | Alternatives to       |
| ------------------------- | --------------------- |
| GitHub Desktop Clients    | GitHub Desktop        |
| Image Editors             | Photoshop             |
| Image Hosting Platforms   | Imgur                 |
| Media Players             | Windows Media Player  |
| Music Sharing Platforms   | Soundcloud            |
| Notepads                  | Notepad               |
| Online Stores             | Amazon                |
| Podcast Sharing Platforms | iTunes/Apple Podcasts |
| Streaming Platforms       | Twitch                |
| VPNs                      | NordVPN               |
| Wallpaper Hosts           | WallHaven             |
| Word Processors           | Microsoft Word        |

## Definitions of dev status terms
- **unclear** : last release was not dated
- **active** : has been updated in the last year
- **dormant** : has not been updated for more than one year
- **ongoing** : receives irregular updates after long periods of apparent inactivity.
- **deprecated** : still widely used but no longer officially recommended and is not receiving updates
- **discontinued** : either officially discontinued or there have been no updates for more than two years

I only stick to these definitions strictly in the case of web browsers and email clients. The reason for this is that the other types of software don't really require frequent updates. An office suite could go without updates for a few years without it necessarily meaning it's been abandoned or discontinued, but applications that connect to the internet require frequent security patches.

Some lists may not even include the development status of the software in cases where it's not very relevant.

## FAQ
(preemptive responses to likely FAQ)

**Why does this exist?**  
For one reason or another I was unhappy with existing solutions for the categorization and listing of software. For example, some sites group vaguely related apps together in ways I don't agree with: Zoho isn't a web browser, it's an office suite with web-based and web-friendly features. And yet, on some alternative software lists, you can find it listed as an alternative to popular web browsers. Some sites also list media players and music players together, which is something I personally dislike, although I also understand why some people don't care about the differences between those types of software.

I'm also compiling these lists because some existing solutions were short and, I felt, very incomplete, but I had no power to change most of them.

#### Note
This database was moved from Reddit where it was a wiki, which was originally moved from my website where it was a poorly made webpage. I'm moving it to Github because I expect that, if anyone should want to contribute, Github will make it much easier for them to do so.

For now I'm putting the lists in their own markdown files in the top level of the repo, but it's not impossible that I'll eventually put them in a wiki here; or, make a github site for the project so that people who aren't familiar with Github can more easily peruse the lists.

**Need to contact me directly? Feel free to get in touch.**  
- join my [Discord server](https://discord.gg/NqqU2fV)
- [Email me](mailto:jontiamac@gmail.com)
- Otherwise [here's](https://tiamarth.com/card.php) a list of all the places I'm most active.

Commit message:

add web browsers to being updated lists
add wallpaper hosts to in progress lists
Planned Lists > Planned

README.md, after:

# MetaLists
These are lists of software, focusing on those that are Linux-compatible. Use them to find alternative solutions for things you do every day, or just to find neat new software. Generally speaking, these lists will also contain software that is not made to be used a certain way but still can be. For example, you'll find [Atom](https://atom.io/) in the web browsers list because it can be modified to act like a web browser, even though it's made to be a text editor.

It is both possible and likely that I've made some mistakes in the details of these lists, as I have been compiling them by hand. It's also likely that a lot of the data in these lists, such as software's current development status, is out of date. I can't keep track of all this information efficiently enough to constantly keep all the lists updated. If you notice a mistake, feel free to make a pull request or create an issue with details such as which list the correction is for, the name of the software, what needs to be corrected, and any relevant links.

Generally, I will only list software that is still available for download from official sources. The point of this is to reduce linking to potential malware or adware. If there is software listed for which you cannot find a download, it is probably only still available via the repos of a Linux distribution. I'm on Manjaro. Some of these lists are not for software downloads, but primarily for online services you use in your web browser, these lists will not include whether or not the services support Linux.

I have not tested every piece of software and every service listed here. If you find malware, adware, or any other form of malicious software or service listed here, please remove it and submit a pull request, create an issue, or otherwise get in touch with me so that I can remove it.

## Current Lists
| Name / Link                                                         | Alternatives to                     |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| [Audio Editors and Music Production Suites](lists/audio_editors.md) | Audacity and FruityLoops            |
| [Audio Metadata Editors](lists/audio_meta_editors.md)               | Mp3tag                              |
| [Cloud Storage Services](lists/clouds.md)                           | Google Drive and Dropbox            |
| [Dictionaries](lists/dictionaries.md)                               | Dictionary.com                      |
| [Digital Assistants](lists/digital_assistants.md)                   | Cortana, Siri, and Google Assistant |
| [Email Clients](lists/email_clients.md)                             | Thunderbird                         |
| [Game Distribution Platforms](lists/game_distribs.md)               | Steam, Epic, and GOG                |
| [Game Library Managers](lists/game_libraries.md)                    | Steam                               |
| [Music Library Managers](lists/music_libraries.md)                  | MediaMonkey                         |
| [Music Players](lists/music_players.md)                             | Groove                              |
| [Office Suites](lists/office_suites.md)                             | Microsoft Office and LibreOffice    |
| [Search Engines](lists/search_engines.md)                           | Google                              |
| [Social Media](lists/social_media.md)                               | Facebook and Twitter                |
| [Software Lists](lists/software_lists.md)                           | AlternativeTo                       |
| [Sound Generators](lists/sound_gens.md)                             | myNoise                             |
| [Text Editors](lists/text_editors.md)                               | Notepad                             |
| [Video Editors](lists/video_editors.md)                             | Adobe Premiere                      |
| [Video Sharing Platforms](lists/video_sharing.md)                   | Youtube                             |
| [VoIPs](lists/voips.md)                                             | Skype and Discord                   |

## Being Updated
| Name / Link                                                         | Alternatives to                     |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| [Web Browsers](lists/web_browsers.md)                               | Google Chrome and Firefox           |

## In Progress
| Name / Link                                                         | Alternatives to                     |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| [Wallpaper Hosts](lists/wallpaper_hosts.md)                         | WallHaven                           |

## Planned
| Name / Link               | Alternatives to       |
| ------------------------- | --------------------- |
| GitHub Desktop Clients    | GitHub Desktop        |
| Image Editors             | Photoshop             |
| Image Hosting Platforms   | Imgur                 |
| Media Players             | Windows Media Player  |
| Music Sharing Platforms   | Soundcloud            |
| Notepads                  | Notepad               |
| Online Stores             | Amazon                |
| Podcast Sharing Platforms | iTunes/Apple Podcasts |
| Streaming Platforms       | Twitch                |
| VPNs                      | NordVPN               |
| Word Processors           | Microsoft Word        |

## Definitions of dev status terms
- **unclear** : last release was not dated
- **active** : has been updated in the last year
- **dormant** : has not been updated for more than one year
- **ongoing** : receives irregular updates after long periods of apparent inactivity.
- **deprecated** : still widely used but no longer officially recommended and is not receiving updates
- **discontinued** : either officially discontinued or there have been no updates for more than two years

I only stick to these definitions strictly in the case of web browsers and email clients. The reason for this is that the other types of software don't really require frequent updates. An office suite could go without updates for a few years without it necessarily meaning it's been abandoned or discontinued, but applications that connect to the internet require frequent security patches.

Some lists may not even include the development status of the software in cases where it's not very relevant.

## FAQ
(preemptive responses to likely FAQ)

**Why does this exist?**  
For one reason or another I was unhappy with existing solutions for the categorization and listing of software. For example, some sites group vaguely related apps together in ways I don't agree with: Zoho isn't a web browser, it's an office suite with web-based and web-friendly features. And yet, on some alternative software lists, you can find it listed as an alternative to popular web browsers. Some sites also list media players and music players together, which is something I personally dislike, although I also understand why some people don't care about the differences between those types of software.

I'm also compiling these lists because some existing solutions were short and, I felt, very incomplete, but I had no power to change most of them.

#### Note
This database was moved from Reddit where it was a wiki, which was originally moved from my website where it was a poorly made webpage. I'm moving it to Github because I expect that, if anyone should want to contribute, Github will make it much easier for them to do so.

For now I'm putting the lists in their own markdown files in the top level of the repo, but it's not impossible that I'll eventually put them in a wiki here; or, make a github site for the project so that people who aren't familiar with Github can more easily peruse the lists.

**Need to contact me directly? Feel free to get in touch.**  
- join my [Discord server](https://discord.gg/NqqU2fV)
- [Email me](mailto:jontiamac@gmail.com)
- Otherwise [here's](https://tiamarth.com/card.php) a list of all the places I'm most active.
