voips.md, before:

# VoIPs
| Name                                             | Development Status | Open Source | Linux | Web | Market    |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ------------------ | ----------- | ----- | --- | --------- |
| [Garena](https://www.garena.sg/gpc)              | unclear            | no          | no    | no  | gamers    |
| [Mumble](http://www.mumble.com/)                 | active             | yes         | yes   | no  | gamers    |
| [Discord](https://discordapp.com/)               | active             | no          | yes   | yes | gamers    |
| [Overtone](https://overtone.app/)                | active             | no          | no    | yes | gamers    |
| [Teamspeak](https://www.teamspeak.com/)          | unclear            | no          | yes   | no  | gamers    |
| [Ventrillo](http://www.ventrilo.com/)            | discontinued       | no          | no    | no  | gamers    |
| [Slack](https://slack.com/)                      | active             | no          | yes   | no  | workplace |
| [Rocket.Chat](https://rocket.chat/)              | active             | yes         | yes   | yes | workplace |
| [Zulip](https://zulipchat.com/)                  | active             | yes         | yes   | no  | workplace |
| [Brosix](https://www.brosix.com/)                | active             | no          | yes   | yes | workplace |
| [VIPole](https://www.vipole.com/)                | dormant            | no          | yes   | no  | workplace |
| [Tox](https://tox.chat/)                         | active             | yes         | yes   | no  | social    |
| [Jami](https://jami.net/)                        | active             | yes         | yes   | no  | social    |
| [Ekiga](http://www.ekiga.org/)                   | discontinued       | yes         | yes   | no  | social    |
| [Jitsi](https://jitsi.org/)                      | active             | yes         | yes   | yes | social    |
| [Skype](https://www.skype.com/en/)               | active             | no          | yes   | yes | social    |
| [Viber](https://www.viber.com/en/)               | active             | no          | yes   | no  | social    |
| [Signal](https://signal.org/)                    | active             | yes         | yes   | no  | social    |
| [Voptop](https://www.voptop.com/)                | unclear            | no          | yes   | no  | social    |
| [Empathy](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Empathy)   | active             | yes         | yes   | no  | social    |
| [WhatsApp](https://www.whatsapp.com/)            | active             | no          | no    | yes | social    |
| [Google Hangouts](https://hangouts.google.com/)  | active             | no          | no    | yes | social    |
| [Facebook Messenger](https://www.messenger.com/) | active             | no          | no    | yes | social    |

## Other software with voice call functionality
| Name                                          | Development Status | Open Source | Linux | Web | Market |
| --------------------------------------------- | ------------------ | ----------- | ----- | --- | ------ |
| [Steam](http://store.steampowered.com/about/) | active             | no          | yes   | yes | gamers |

## See also
1. [YakYak](https://github.com/yakyak/yakyak) is a desktop client for Google Hangouts, supports Linux, and is open source

## FAQ
Preemptive responses to likely FAQs:

**What's a VoIP?**  
*VoIP stands for Voice Over IP.* Basically, a VoIP is software that lets you call people from your computer.

## Data
VoIPs: 25  
can be used in a web browser: 10

**License**  
open source: 9  
proprietary: 16

**Linux support**  
no linux support: 10  
linux support: 15

**Target demographic**  
workplace: 4  
gamers: 8  
social: 13

Commit message:

remove brosix
add sococo
add collabify
add whistle
update faqs

voips.md, after:

# VoIPs
| Name                                             | Development Status | Open Source | Linux | Web | Market    |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ------------------ | ----------- | ----- | --- | --------- |
| [Garena](https://www.garena.sg/gpc)              | unclear            | no          | no    | no  | gamers    |
| [Mumble](http://www.mumble.com/)                 | active             | yes         | yes   | no  | gamers    |
| [Discord](https://discordapp.com/)               | active             | no          | yes   | yes | gamers    |
| [Overtone](https://overtone.app/)                | active             | no          | no    | yes | gamers    |
| [Teamspeak](https://www.teamspeak.com/)          | unclear            | no          | yes   | no  | gamers    |
| [Ventrillo](http://www.ventrilo.com/)            | discontinued       | no          | no    | no  | gamers    |
| [Slack](https://slack.com/)                      | active             | no          | yes   | no  | workplace |
| [Rocket.Chat](https://rocket.chat/)              | active             | yes         | yes   | yes | workplace |
| [Zulip](https://zulipchat.com/)                  | active             | yes         | yes   | no  | workplace |
| [Sococo](https://www.sococo.com/)                | active             | no          | no    | yes | workplace |
| [VIPole](https://www.vipole.com/)                | dormant            | no          | yes   | no  | workplace |
| [Collabify](https://collabify.app/)              | active             | no          | no    | yes | workplace |
| [Tox](https://tox.chat/)                         | active             | yes         | yes   | no  | social    |
| [Jami](https://jami.net/)                        | active             | yes         | yes   | no  | social    |
| [Ekiga](http://www.ekiga.org/)                   | discontinued       | yes         | yes   | no  | social    |
| [Jitsi](https://jitsi.org/)                      | active             | yes         | yes   | yes | social    |
| [Skype](https://www.skype.com/en/)               | active             | no          | yes   | yes | social    |
| [Viber](https://www.viber.com/en/)               | active             | no          | yes   | no  | social    |
| [Signal](https://signal.org/)                    | active             | yes         | yes   | no  | social    |
| [Voptop](https://www.voptop.com/)                | unclear            | no          | yes   | no  | social    |
| [Empathy](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Empathy)   | active             | yes         | yes   | no  | social    |
| [Whistle](https://www.whistlephone.com/)         | unclear            | no          | no    | no  | social    |
| [WhatsApp](https://www.whatsapp.com/)            | active             | no          | no    | yes | social    |
| [Google Hangouts](https://hangouts.google.com/)  | active             | no          | no    | yes | social    |
| [Facebook Messenger](https://www.messenger.com/) | active             | no          | no    | yes | social    |

## Other software with voice call functionality
| Name                                          | Development Status | Open Source | Linux | Web | Market |
| --------------------------------------------- | ------------------ | ----------- | ----- | --- | ------ |
| [Steam](http://store.steampowered.com/about/) | active             | no          | yes   | yes | gamers |

## See also
1. [YakYak](https://github.com/yakyak/yakyak) is a desktop client for Google Hangouts, supports Linux, and is open source

## FAQ
(Preemptive responses to likely FAQs)

**What's a VoIP?**  
*VoIP stands for Voice Over IP.* Basically, a VoIP is software that lets you call people from your computer. Messaging apps which do not support voice chat, such as Telegram, will not be included in this list. Apps which only support voice chat when accompanied by video through web cam will not be included either.

## Data
VoIPs: 25  
can be used in a web browser: 10

**License**  
open source: 9  
proprietary: 16

**Linux support**  
no linux support: 10  
linux support: 15

**Target demographic**  
workplace: 4  
gamers: 8  
social: 13
